ceph: auto grow OSDs size on PVCs (#8078)
rook/rook: Documentation/ceph-advanced-configuration.md

If the cluster's health was `HEALTH_OK` when we performed this change, immediately, the new rule is applied to the cluster transparently without service disruption.

Exactly the same approach can be used to change from `host` back to `osd`.

## Auto Expansion of OSDs

> ### Prerequisites for using this feature :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

> You should have a Cluster-on-PVC deployed on Dynamic provisioning environment like:AWS,etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [PVC-based cluster](ceph-cluster-crd.md#pvc-based-cluster) deployed in dynamic provisioning environment with a `storageClassDeviceSet`.
```

  
### To scale OSDs Vertically

If you need to auto-grow the size of OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold.

> You just need to run a script.

Reviewer 2: Line 605 and 603 could be a single line - 
` Run the following script to auto-grow the size of OSDs ...`

```console
tests/scripts/auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max maxSize --growth-rate percent 
```
>growth-rate percentage represents the percent increase you want in the OSD capacity and maxSize represent the maximum disk size.

For example, If you need to increase the size of OSD by 30% and max disk size is 1Ti
```console
./auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max 1Ti --growth-rate 30 
```

### To scale OSDs Horizontally

If you need to auto-grow the number of OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold.

> You just need to run a script.

Reviewer 2: Line 618 and 620 could be a single line - 
` Run the following script to auto-grow the number of OSDs ...`

Author: Done

If the cluster's health was `HEALTH_OK` when we performed this change, immediately, the new rule is applied to the cluster transparently without service disruption.

Exactly the same approach can be used to change from `host` back to `osd`.

## Auto Expansion of OSDs

### Prerequisites

1) A [PVC-based cluster](ceph-cluster-crd.md#pvc-based-cluster) deployed in dynamic provisioning environment with a `storageClassDeviceSet`.

> 2) Create rook-ceph ToolBox Deployment.

Reviewer: No need to show the toolbox.yaml on the lines below, a reference to that doc is ok. They probably already have the toolbox running anyway.
```suggestion
2) Create the Rook [Toolbox](ceph-toolbox.md).
```

Author: Yes, modified the doc.

> You need to just run the script `increase-size-of-osd.sh`.

Reviewer 3: This can be part of the previous paragraph:

> If you need to auto-grow the OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold, you can use Prometheus. Prometheus can call the script `add-osd-capacity.sh` to do so.

> You need to just run the script `increase-size-of-osd.sh`.

Author: okay thanks, I will modify it.

> .\auto-grow-storage.sh size

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
tests/scripts/auto-grow-storage.sh size
```

```

> After running the script it will ask for the `growth rate percentage`.

Reviewer: Instead of prompting for the arguments after starting the script, we should read the arguments to the script. For example:
```
./increase-size-of-osd.sh count --max 12 --growth-rate 3
OR
./increase-size-of-osd.sh size --max 2Ti --growth-rate 10%

Growth rate percentage represent the percent increase you want in the OSD capacity.

For ex: If you need to increase the size of OSD by 30%
```console
Enter the growth rate percentage of OSD:
30 

> ```

Author: The script takes the input only for the first time when we start it(to know the growth percentage or count ), and after it automatically triggers actions based on the Prometheus alert, in a time interval of 5 mins.

### To scale OSDs Horizontally
If you need to auto grow the number of OSDs on a PVC based rook-ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage threshold you can use Prometheus for it.

You need to just run the script `increase-size-of-osd.sh`.
```console
.\increase-size-of-osd.sh count
```

After running the script it will ask for the `count of OSD`.

Count of OSD represent the number of OSDs you need to add.

For ex: If you need to increase the number of OSD by 3
```console
Enter the count of OSD you need to add:
3 
```

> >NOTE: minimum count you should specify is 3

Author: okay

If the cluster's health was `HEALTH_OK` when we performed this change, immediately, the new rule is applied to the cluster transparently without service disruption.

Exactly the same approach can be used to change from `host` back to `osd`.

## Auto Expansion of OSDs

### Prerequisites for using this feature :

1) You should have a Cluster-on-PVC deployed on Dynamic provisioning environment like:AWS,etc.

> 

Reviewer 5: remove extra line...same below

2) Create the cluster-monitoring-config ConfigMap object with `enableUserWorkload: true`, [Reference Docmentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects_enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects)

> 3) Create the [PrometheusRule](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/monitoring/prometheus-ceph-v14-rules.yaml) for Rook alerts.

Author: I was thinking to create these Prerequisites in the script.
As this is common for all the clusters.
Should I do this @travisn @leseb @subhamkrai?

## Auto Expansion of OSDs

Prerequisites for using this feature :

i) You should have a Cluster-on-PVC deployed on Dynamic provisioning environment like:AWS,etc.

ii) Create the cluster-monitoring-config ConfigMap object with `enableUserWorkload: true`, [Reference Docmentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects_enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects)

iii) Create the [PrometheusRule](https://github.com/rook/rook/blob/master/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/monitoring/prometheus-ceph-v14-rules.yaml) for Rook alerts.

```console 
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rook/rook/master/cluster/examples/kubernetes/ceph/monitoring/prometheus-ceph-v14-rules.yaml
```
  
### To scale OSDs Vertically

If you need to auto-grow the size of OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold, you can use Prometheus for it.

You need to just run the script `auto-grow-storage.sh`.
```console
tests/scripts/auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max maxSize --growth-rate percent 
```

> 

Reviewer 5: remove extra line

> growth-rate percentage represents the percent increase you want in the OSD capacity and maxSize represent the maximum disk size.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
> growth-rate percentage represents the percent increase you want in the OSD capacity and maxSize represent the maximum disk size.
```

For example, If you need to increase the size of OSD by 30% and max disk size is 1Ti
```console
./auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max 1Ti --growth-rate 30 
```

### To scale OSDs Horizontally

If you need to auto-grow the number of OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold, you can use Prometheus for it.

> You need to just run the script `auto-grow-storage.sh`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You just need to run a script.
```

```console
tests/scripts/auto-grow-storage.sh count --max maxCount --count rate
```

> 

Reviewer 5: remove extra line

> Count of OSD represents the number of OSDs you need to add and maxCount represents number of Disk a storage device will support.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
> Count of OSD represents the number of OSDs you need to add and maxCount represents number of Disk a storage device will support.
```

If the cluster's health was `HEALTH_OK` when we performed this change, immediately, the new rule is applied to the cluster transparently without service disruption.

Exactly the same approach can be used to change from `host` back to `osd`.

> ## Auto Expansion of OSDs

Reviewer: At the top of this doc there is a table of contents, if you could add a link to this section.

Author: * [Auto Expansion of OSDs](#auto-expansion-of-OSDs), I have changed like this.

### Prerequisites

1) A [PVC-based cluster](ceph-cluster-crd.md#pvc-based-cluster) deployed in dynamic provisioning environment with a `storageClassDeviceSet`.

> 2) Create External Service to export the Alertmanager,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Create an External Service to export the Alertmanager. For example:
```

>   * For OpenShift based cluster: Create a Route in `rook-ceph` namespace from Openshift UI under Network Section, Select service as `rook-prometheus` give a name to it and leave other fields as it is.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * OpenShift: Create a Route in `rook-ceph` namespace from Openshift UI under Network Section, select the service as `rook-prometheus`, set a name, and leave other fields with their defaults.   
```

>   * For rest of the cluster environment:  Create a Nodeport service 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * For some environments, you can create a Nodeport service 
```

    ```    
  
### To scale OSDs Vertically

Run the following script to auto-grow the size of OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold.
```console
tests/scripts/auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max maxSize --growth-rate percent 
```
>growth-rate percentage represents the percent increase you want in the OSD capacity and maxSize represent the maximum disk size.

For example, if you need to increase the size of OSD by 30% and max disk size is 1Ti
```console
./auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max 1Ti --growth-rate 30 
```
>Note: If you have the cluster created on OCP, also send the route name as last parameter,

Example: If Route name is Alert
```console
./auto-grow-storage.sh size  --max 1Ti --growth-rate 30 --route Alert
``` 

### To scale OSDs Horizontally

Run the following script to auto-grow the number of OSDs on a PVC-based Rook-Ceph cluster whenever the OSDs have reached the storage near-full threshold.
```console
tests/scripts/auto-grow-storage.sh count --max maxCount --count rate
```
>Count of OSD represents the number of OSDs you need to add and maxCount represents the number of disks a storage cluster will support.

> For example, if you need to increase the number of OSD by 3 and maxCount is 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you need to increase the number of OSDs by 3 and maxCount is 10
```
